AWS Wavelength

Developer Guide

What is AWS Wavelength?
AWS Wavelength enables developers to build applications that require edge computing
infrastructure to deliver low latency to mobile devices and end users or increase the resiliency of
their existing edge applications. Wavelength deploys standard AWS compute and storage services
to the edge of communications service providers' (CSP) networks. You can extend a virtual private
cloud (VPC) to one or more Wavelength Zones. You can then use AWS resources such as Amazon
Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances to run the applications that require low latency or
edge resiliency within the Wavelength Zone, while seamlessly communicating back to your existing
AWS services deployed in the parent AWS Region.
For more information, see AWS Wavelength.

Wavelength concepts
The following are the key concepts:
• Wavelength — A new type of AWS infrastructure designed to run workloads that require low
latency or edge resiliency.
• Wavelength Zone — A zone in the carrier location where the Wavelength infrastructure is
deployed. Wavelength Zones are associated with an AWS Region. A Wavelength Zone is a logical
extension of the Region, and is managed by the control plane in the Region.
• VPC — A customer virtual private cloud (VPC) that spans Availability Zones, Local Zones, and
Wavelength Zones, and has deployed resources such as Amazon EC2 instances in the subnets
that are associated with the zones.
• Wavelength subnet — A subnet that you create in a Wavelength Zone. You can create one or
more subnets, and then run and manage AWS services, such as Amazon EC2 instances, in the
subnet.
• Carrier gateway — A carrier gateway serves two purposes. It allows inbound traﬃc from a carrier
network in a speciﬁc location, and allows outbound traﬃc to the carrier network and internet.
• Network Border Group — A unique set of Availability Zones, Local Zones, or Wavelength Zones
from which AWS advertises IP addresses.
• Wavelength application — An application that you run on an AWS resource in a Wavelength
Zone.
Wavelength concepts

1

AWS Wavelength

Developer Guide

AWS resources on Wavelength
You can create Amazon EC2 instances, Amazon EBS volumes, and Amazon VPC subnets and carrier
gateways in Wavelength Zones. You can also use the following:
• Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling
• Amazon EKS clusters
• Amazon ECS clusters
• Amazon EC2 Systems Manager
• Amazon CloudWatch
• AWS CloudTrail
• AWS CloudFormation
• Application Load Balancer in select Wavelength Zones. For a list of these Zones, see Load
balancing.
The services in Wavelength are part of a VPC that is connected over a reliable connection to an
AWS Region for easy access to services running in Regional subnets.

Working with Wavelength
You can create, access, and manage your EC2 resources, Wavelength Zones, and carrier gateways
using any of the following interfaces:
• AWS Management Console— Provides a web interface that you can use to access your
Wavelength resources.
• AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) — Provides commands for a broad set of AWS services,
including Amazon VPC, and is supported on Windows, macOS, and Linux. The services you
use in Wavelength continue to use their own namespace, for example Amazon EC2 uses the
"ec2" namespace, and Amazon EBS uses the "ebs" namespace. For more information, see AWS
Command Line Interface.
• AWS SDKs — Provides language-speciﬁc APIs and takes care of many of the connection
details, such as calculating signatures, handling request retries, and handling errors. For more
information, see AWS SDKs.
When you use any of the interfaces for your Wavelength Zones, use the parent Region.
AWS resources on Wavelength

2

AWS Wavelength

Developer Guide

Pricing
For more information, see AWS Wavelength Pricing.

Use cases for AWS Wavelength
Using AWS Wavelength Zones can help you accomplish a variety of goals. This section lists a few to
give you an idea of the possibilities.
Contents
• Online betting and regulated industries
• Media and entertainment
• Healthcare
• Augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR)
• Connected vehicles
• Smart factories
• Real-time gaming

Online betting and regulated industries
AWS Wavelength provides edge resiliency to help address data residency requirements for
regulated industries, such as online sports betting. Using a combination of AWS Wavelength
alongside existing AWS hybrid and edge services such as AWS Outposts or AWS Local Zones, you
can create highly-available architectures within state or country borders.

Media and entertainment
Wavelength provides the low latency needed to live stream high-resolution video and high-ﬁdelity
audio, and to embed interactive experiences into live video streams. Real-time video analytics
provide the ability to generate real-time statistics that enhance the live event experience.

Healthcare
Using AWS Wavelength, medical training providers can oﬀer mobile games, medical simulations for
rare disease diagnosis, advanced endoscopic maneuvers, ultrasound equipment and much more.
Pricing

3

AWS Wavelength

Developer Guide

Using AWS Wavelength to host the remote rendering engine, doctors can experience an immersive
training experience without procuring the often-required expensive equipment to do so.

Augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR)
By accessing compute resources on AWS Wavelength, AR/VR applications can reduce the Motion to
Photon (MTP) latencies to the benchmark that is needed to oﬀer a realistic customer experience.
When you use AWS Wavelength, you can oﬀer AR/VR in locations where it is not possible to run
local system servers.

Connected vehicles
Cellular Vehicle-to-Everything (C-V2X) is an increasingly important platform for enabling
functionality such as intelligent driving, real-time HD maps, and increased road safety. Low latency
access to the compute infrastructure that's needed to run data processing and analytics on AWS
Wavelength enables real-time monitoring of data from sensors on the vehicle. This allows for
secure connectivity, in-car telematics, and autonomous driving.

Smart factories
Industrial automation applications use ML inference at the edge to analyze images and videos to
detect quality issues on fast moving assembly lines and to trigger actions that address the issues.
With AWS Wavelength, these applications can be deployed without having to use expensive, GPUbased servers on the factory ﬂoor.

Real-time gaming
Real-time game streaming depends on low latency to preserve the user experience. With AWS
Wavelength, you can stream the most demanding games from Wavelength Zones so that they are
available on end devices that have limited processing power.

Augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR)

4

AWS Wavelength

Developer Guide

How AWS Wavelength works
The following diagram demonstrates how you can create a subnet that uses resources in a
communications service provider (CSP) network at a speciﬁc location. For resources that must be
deployed to the Wavelength Zone, ﬁrst opt in to the Wavelength Zone, and then create resources
in the Wavelength Zone.

Contents
• VPCs
• Subnets
• Carrier gateways
• Carrier IP address
• Routing
• DNS
• Maximum transmission unit

VPCs
After you create a VPC in a Region, create a subnet in a Wavelength Zone that is associated with
the VPC. In addition to the Wavelength Zone, you can create resources in all of the Availability
Zones and Local Zones that are associated with the VPC.
VPCs

5

AWS Wavelength

Developer Guide

Architect apps for Wavelength
Wavelength Zones are designed for the following workloads:
• Applications that require edge resiliency across existing AWS hybrid and edge infrastructure
deployments
• Applications that need to connect to compute with low latency
• Applications that need to run in a certain geography due to legal or regulatory requirements
• Applications that need consistent data rates from mobile devices to compute in a Wavelength
Zone
Review Quotas and considerations, which includes information about available Wavelength Zones,
service diﬀerences, and Service Quotas.
Consider the following factors when using Wavelength Zones:
• AWS recommends that you architect the edge applications in a hub and spoke model with the
Region to provide the most scalable, resilient, and cost-eﬀective options for components. For
more information, see the section called “Workload placement”
• Services that run in Wavelength Zones have diﬀerent compliance than services in an AWS Region.
For more information, see the section called “Compliance validation”.
Most Wavelength Zones have network access that is speciﬁc to a telecommunication carrier and
location. Therefore, you might need to have multiple Wavelength Zones for your latency-sensitive
applications to meet your latency requirements. For more information, see the section called
“Networking considerations”.

Discover the closest Wavelength Zone endpoint
You can use the following procedures to have client devices discover the closest Wavelength Zone
endpoint, for example an Amazon EC2 instance:
• Register the instance with a discovery service such as AWS Cloud Map. For information about
how to register an instance, see Registering Instances in the AWS Cloud Map Developer Guide.
• Another approach is to use multiple Wavelength Zones across your deployment and utilize
adjacent Zones, powered by carrier-developed edge discovery services to route mobile traﬃc.
Discover the closest Wavelength Zone endpoint

27

AWS Wavelength

Developer Guide

For more information, see Deploying dynamic 5G Edge Discovery architectures with AWS
Wavelength.
• Applications that run on client devices can run latency tests such as ping from the client to
select the best endpoint that is registered in AWS Cloud Map, or can use the geolocation data
from the mobile device.

Load balancing
Application Load Balancer (ALB) is supported in select Wavelength Zones. Load balancers distribute
your incoming traﬃc across multiple targets, such as Amazon EC2 instances, containers, and IP
addresses, within the Wavelength Zone. Key considerations include:
• Network Load Balancer (NLB) is not supported in Wavelength Zones. To learn more, see Enabling
load-balancing of non-HTTP(s) traﬃc on AWS Wavelength.
• Cross-Zone load balancing across multiple Wavelength Zones is not supported.
ALB is available in the following Wavelength Zones:
• All Wavelength Zones in the us-east-1 Region.
• All Wavelength Zones in us-west-2 Region.
• All Wavelength Zones in the ap-northeast-1 Region.
• All Wavelength Zones in the eu-central-1 Region.

High availability
Follow these strategies to deploy highly available architectures at the edge.

Deployment
Consider the following:
• Multiple Wavelength Zones within a given VPC: using techniques highlighted in the Discover
the closest Wavelength Zone endpoint section, you can steer traﬃc to the optimal Wavelength
Zone based on latency or application health.
• Combine Wavelength Zones with other AWS hybrid and edge locations: you can combine
AWS Local Zones subnets with AWS Wavelength Zones subnets to create highly-available
Load balancing

28

AWS Wavelength

Developer Guide

deployments within a given geography. For example, you can create an Atlanta AWS Local Zone
subnet (us-east-1-atl-2a) alongside an Atlanta Wavelength Zone subnet (us-east-1-wl1atl-wlz-1) within the same VPC.

DNS resolution
One way to create both physical and logical redundancy across your high-availability edge
deployments is to utilize the parent Region as the failover, using simple Route 53-based failover
policies to steer traﬃc to an available endpoint. For more information, see Conﬁguring DNS
failover in the Amazon Route 53 Developer Guide.

Workload placement
Run the following components in the Region:
• Components that are less latency sensitive
• Components that do not require data residency
• Components that need to be shared across Zones
• Components that need to persist state, such as databases
Run the application components that need low latency and higher bandwidth over mobile
networks in Wavelength Zones.
For optimal throughput, AWS recommends that you use a public service endpoint when
applications in the Wavelength Zone need to connect to AWS services in the parent Region.

DNS resolution

29

